Hey how's it going Dave QD here and this
is the essential phone and I wanted to
thank tell us for partnering with me on
this video
they're the exclusive launch carrier for
this phone in Canada so if you're
interested in the essential phone and
you live in Canada you should check out
their website there's a link in the
description so I'm gonna start off with
a quick unboxing here we get a slide-out
tray inside and you get the phone itself
a 27y charging brick a braided USBC
cable and then a braided USBC headphone
jack adapter you also get a sim tool
shaped like the essential logo one of
the headlining features of the phone is
the build it's made from titanium and
ceramic and when I first heard that
essential was doing this with their
phone it didn't seem that special I mean
it sounded cool but I didn't think that
the build materials would make that much
of a difference in how the phone feels
but it does titanium is a very hard
metal if you look at the tensile
strength of some metals titanium alloys
can get way harder than even the best
aluminum alloy so the frame should be
pretty resistant to damage the ceramic
slab on the back is also super durable I
thought it was glass at first because
it's so shiny but it's actually polished
ceramic and this surface is very
resilient to scratches I'm not going to
call it scratch proof because there's
very few things on this world that are
actually scratch proof but my keys can't
mark the surface at all and I think
they've done a really good job combining
the two materials it's a very nice
device to hold in your hand in terms of
the design it's a very simple and clean
aesthetic it's comfortable to hold but
because of the ceramic material it's
heavier than you would imagine a phone
of this size to weight it's not heavy
per se it's just heavier than you might
think it would be the earpiece is pretty
much invisible it's tucked away into the
tiny crevice between the screen and the
ceramic perimeter there's a notification
LED tucked in there and the earpiece
sounds good the fingerprint scanner on
the back is quick I can hear the
verification sound right away but
sometimes the screen can take a
split-second to fire up on the back
there are two contact points and these
are where the wireless accessories can
connect these pins are just for power
any kind of data transfer is done
wirelessly and there's a 360-degree
camera module that looks pretty cool
there's no headphone jack and even
though they give you this USBC adapter
I still miss the headphone jack but
that's the past that's the past that the
entire phone industry has chosen to take
and will
to live with that in terms of the
speaker at the bottom it sounds pretty
good and it gets loud but it is a mono
speaker and I really wish the gun for a
stereo setup it's just something I
really like when it comes to smartphone
speakers now if there's one thing I
would knock about the design it would be
the back panel it looks almost too
simple to me there's no branding or
design lines but you can always put
skins on the back to give it some
texture and some grip this is a marble
one from D brand I think it looks nice
alright let's talk about the screen this
phone caught a lot of people's attention
because of the screen it has very thin
bezels it has rounded corners but the
camera is still positioned at the top
and you have this gap or cutout in the
screen where the camera is and some
people may not like it because it looks
so different from your regular
smartphone but I think it looks good now
if you're wondering why they didn't put
the camera at the bottom if you're
taking a picture or using Google hands
this is what the image looks like with
the camera at the top it's a normal
image but then we put at the bottom this
is what the image looks like it's just a
bad angle you can look up your nose you
can still swipe down from the top of the
camera and it works the same you don't
have to adjust your swipes because of it
and when you're watching videos it's
just a black bar along the side the
image doesn't have to go up to that part
and when you're browsing the web using
the cameras playing games
very few apps actually put content up
there you might have a strip of UI
buttons or something
but most apps just have a black bar so
functionally right now
this super thin bezel at the top doesn't
do anything super useful but where this
thing shines is base level UI so the
lockscreen
homescreen and settings and stuff it
just looks so cool to me and every time
I use my phone it feels like a very
futuristic device the display itself is
an IPS panel quad HD resolution the
colors are on point but it's not super
bright there with a 500 nits screen
excellent for indoor use but the screen
can get hard to see on really bright
days looking at performance if the
components in here are very fast it's
got a Snapdragon a35 adrenal 540 with
fast u FS 2.1 storage all the technical
components in here were obviously picked
to give this thing some really good
speed the performance feels like a 2017
flagship phone one thing I noticed this
phone doesn't get that hot so even after
running a bunch of loops and stuff for
benchmarks it felt cool to the touch not
like cold but lukewarm at most I'm not
sure if it's a ceramic material or
something but
yeah it's kind of neat the camera has
two lenses one is an RGB sensor the
other is a monochrome sensor and the
idea here is that they're taking two
photos and then combining the data to
produce something that's as clean as
possible and the images are pretty good
now to be honest I thought that the
essential phone wouldn't have an amazing
camera because they don't emphasize it
that much on the website but they're
good photos taken in good lighting are
nice not that these are difficult to
capture with a 20-17 flagship but the
low-light photos are also not bad
dynamic range could be better in general
but overall I do like the camera I'm not
into black-and-white photography but it
has a dedicated monochrome option I
don't love the stock camera app it's a
little too basic if you're big on
photography you'll probably want a
different camera app the front-facing
camera looks good as well and both
cameras the front and back shoot video
in 4k pricing off-contract
isn't cheap it's a premium 128 gigabyte
phone it starts $700 in the US and I
think 1050 in Canada it's on par with
any big-screen flagship phone I wish
they offer this phone in a cheaper 64
gig variant but $700 for a titanium thin
bezel phone like this feels very normal
right now battery life on this thing is
average - maybe a little bit less than
average because of the bigger screen
so normally screens of this size are
fueled by bigger batteries right but
because it's a small phone with a large
screen the battery is only 3040 milliamp
hours so it's not huge I can comfortably
get a full day of heavy use but not much
more than that it does support quick
charge and it takes about an hour and a
half for a full charge it's running
Android 7.1.1 and it feels very stock to
me which I love the two apps that
they've included that aren't very stock
are their profile migration app it's
called switch back I never used it and
their camera app it's called click and I
don't love the icon and like I mentioned
before it's not a very full-featured
camera app but everything else feels
like stock Android as for updates I
can't tell I mean every phone company
promises an unending stream of super
fast updates but they often don't
deliver as for this one because of Andy
Rubens involvement my gut feeling of
that will get pretty fast and frequent
updates essential does promise two years
of major software updates and then
another year of security updates and
even this pre-release phone this thing
did receive the August 5th update on
time so
that's probably a good sign okay give
central phone with this devices you're
getting excellent ergonomics and build
quality the titanium and ceramic
materials are really nice up front the
ultra thin bezels look really cool it's
not highly functional but it adds to the
super clean aesthetic of the film the
front facing and rear cameras are both
strong performers clean images even in
low-light the fingerprint scanner is
reasonably quick and the ceramic
material in the back gives the phone a
very unique feel but it adds a little
bit of weight inside the snapdragon 835
delivers awesome performance as expected
the storage is also really fast but the
phone only comes in a massive 128 gig
variant so you're forced to go pretty
big and the battery will last about a
day of heavy use so the feature list
isn't massive it's missing things like
wireless charging it doesn't have
official waterproofing so if you're
trying to like one-up your friends with
spec lists on your phone this is not
that phone there are plenty of other
phones for that but with this thing
you're getting a highly functional
device that has all the important specs
but it looks and feels very unique and
just straight-up awesome ok that about
wraps it up if you guys are interested
in this phone there's a link in the
video description if you're in Canada
check out tell us they're the exclusive
launch partner for this company ok hope
you enjoy this video thumbs if you liked
it
sub to be loved it see you guys next
time
[Music]
you